Module 8: Monitoring in Microsoft Azure Stack

Lab: Troubleshooting and Monitoring Microsoft Azure Stack and Guest Operating
Systems

### Exercise 1: Monitoring Azure Stack

####   Task 1: Importing the Microsoft Azure Management Pack

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

    -   Username: AzureStack\\ASUserX

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack** page that opens, click **Virtual
    Machines**.

5.  In the **Virtual machines** blade, click **SCOM01**.

6.  In the **SCOM01** blade, click **Connect**.

7.  When prompted with **“Do you open or save SCOM01.rdp (90 bytes) from
    portal.azurestack.external?”** click **Open**.

8.  In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog, click **Connect**.

9.  In the **Windows Security** dialog, click **More choices**.

10.  Click **Use a different account**.

11.  In the **Username** box, type **.\\DemoAdmin**.

12.  In the **Password** box, enter **Password12345.**

13. Click **OK**.

14. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window that opens, click **Yes**.

15. Click **Start**, type **Operations** and then click **Operations Console**.

16. In the **Operations Manager Console**, click the **Administration**
    workspace.

17. Expand **Management Packs** and then click **Installed Management Packs**.

18. From the **Tasks** pane click **Import Management Packs**.

19. In the **Import Management Packs** window that opens, click **Add**, then
    click **Add from disk**.

20. In the **Online Catalog Connection** window that opens, click **No**.

21. In the **Import Management Packs** window that opens, navigate to
    **C:\\ManagementPacks** and then click
    **Microsoft.SystemCenter.AzureStack.mpb** and then click **Open**.

22. In the **Import Management Packs** window, click **Install**.

23. When the **Management Pack** has been installed, click **Close** on the
    **Import Management Packs** window.

24. Leave the connection to **SCOM01** open.

####   Task 2: Import the Azure Stack certificate and enable communications to Azure Stack

1.  On **SCOM01**, navigate to **C:\\Management Packs** and then right-click
    **AzureStackCertificationAuthority.cer** and then click **Install
    Certificate**.

2.  In the **Certificate Import Wizard** that opens, click **Local Machine** and
    then click **Next**.

3.  On the **Certificate Store** page, click **Place all certificates in the
    following store** and then click **Browse**.

4.  In the **Select Certificate Store** dialog box that opens, click **Trusted
    Root Certification Authorities** and then click **OK**, then click **Next**.

5.  On the **Completing the Certificate Import Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

6.  In the **Certificate Import Wizard** popup window that opens, click **OK**.

7.  On **MAS-HOST01**, click **Start**, then click **Windows PowerShell**.

8.  In the **Windows PowerShell** window that opens, type the following command
    and then press enter:

Resolve-DnsName adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external

9.  Make a note of the **IP Address** that is returned.

10.  Type the following command and then press enter:

Resolve-DnsName adfs.local.azurestack.external

11.  Make a note of the **IP Address** that is returned.

12.  Leave the **Windows PowerShell** window open for reference.

13.  Return to the **SCOM01** connection.

14.  Navigate to **C:\\Windows\\System32\\drivers\\etc** and then open the
    **Hosts** file with **Notepad**.

15.  Add two new lines to the end of the **Hosts** file as shown below:

192.168.102.7 adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external

192.168.102.5 adfs.local.azurestack.external

16.  If it is different, Replace the IP Address for
    **adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external** with **the IP Address**
    obtained in **Step 9**.

17.  If it is different, Replace the IP Address for
    **adfs.local.azurestack.external** with the **IP Address** obtained in
    **Step 11**.

18.  Note that there should be a space between the IP address and the DNS name
    but they should both be on the same line. You should have added two
    additional lines to the end of the Hosts file.

19.  Save and then close the **Hosts** file.

20.  Restart **SCOM01** and then login and start the **Operations Console** using
    the **Steps 5 – 14** in the previous task.

####   Task 3: Configuring the Microsoft Azure Management Pack

1.  In the **Operations Manager Console**, on **SCOM01** click the
    **Administration** workspace and then click **Microsoft Azure Stack**.

2.  In the details pane click **Add Deployment**.

3.  On the **Connection Configuration** page, type
    **https://adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external** in the **Endpoint
    URL** box.

4.  Type **local** in the **Region** box and then click **Next**.

5.  On the **Account** page, ensure **User Principal** is selected and then in
    the **Username** box type **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX.**

6.  In the **Password** box type **Pa55w.rd** and then click **Next**.

7.  On the **Account Verification** page, click **Next**.

8.  On the **Server Pool** page, click **Add Deployment**.

9.  On the **Completion** page, click **Finish**.

10. Leave the **Operations Console** open on **SCOM01**.

####   Task 4: Confirming Operations Manager Azure Stack Monitoring

1.  On **SCOM01**, in the **Operations Console**, click the **Monitoring**
    workspace and then expand **Microsoft Azure Stack** and then click
    **Deployments**.

2.  Confirm **https://adminimanagement.local.azurestack.external** is displayed
    in a **Healthy** state. Note that it can take up to 5 minutes for the health
    state to change from **Not Monitored** to **Healthy**.

3.  Click the **Active Alerts** view and confirm there are no **Alerts** in the
    details pane. If any alerts exist, right-click them and then click **Close
    Alert**.

4.  Click **Capacity Dashboard** and review the information provided in the
    **Deployments**, **Regions** and **Capacity** sections.

5.  Click **Regions** then from the **Tasks** pane, notice the **Microsoft Azure
    Stack Region Tasks** that are available.

6.  Click the **Health Dashboard** view and review the information provided in
    the **Deployments**, **Regions**, and **Active Alerts** sections.

7.  Click the **Regions** view and confirm the **local** Region is displayed in
    a **Healthy** state. If the **local Region** is not displayed in a
    **Healthy** state perform the additional steps below:

a.  Click the **Active Alerts** view.

b.  Right-click inside the view and then click **Refresh**.

c. Right-click each **Alert** and then click **Close Alert**.

d. Click the **Regions** view and then right-click the **local** Region.

e. Click Open, then click Health Explorer for local.

f. In the **Health Explorer for local** window that opens, expand the health
    monitors and then right-click the lowest level monitor and then click
    **Reset Health**.

g. In the **Reset Health** window that opens, click **Yes**.

h. Click **Close** when the task has completed and then close the **Health
    Explorer for local** window.

i. Right-click in the **Regions** view and then click **Refresh**. The
    **State** for the **local** Region should now change to **Healthy**.

8. Leave the Operations Console open.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have imported the Microsoft Azure
Management Pack into Operations Manager. You should have also configured
monitoring for Azure Stack in Operations Manager. Finally, you should have
confirmed that the Azure Stack environment is being monitored by Operations
Manager.

### Exercise 2: Monitoring Guest Operating Systems

####   Task 1: Deploying the Operations Manager Agent

1.  In the **Operations Manager Console** on **SCOM01** click the
    **Administration** workspace and then click **Discovery Wizard**

2.  In the **Computers and Devices Management Wizard** that opens, on the
    **Discovery Type** page, click **Next**.

3.  On the **Auto or Advanced** page click **Advanced Discovery** and then click
    Next.

4.  On the **Discovery Method** page, click **Browse for, or type-in computer
    names** then in the box below type the following computer name:

-   ADVM

1.  Click **Next**.

2.  On the **Administrator Account** page click **Other user account** and then
    complete the settings as follows:

-   User name: **demoadmin**

-   Password: **Password12345**

-   Domain: **AD**

1.  Click **Discover**.

2.  On the **Select Objects to Manage** page select **ADVM.ad.contoso.com** and
    then click **Next**.

3.  On the **Summary** page, click **Other** and then provide the following
    settings:

-   User name: **demoadmin**

-   Password: **Password12345**

-   Domain: **AD**

1.  Click **Finish**.

2.  Wait until the agent is deployed to the virtual machine and then close the
    **Agent Management Task Status** window.

3.  Leave the **Operations Console** open.

4.  In the **Azure Stack** portal on **AZS-RDP01** that is logged in using the
    **ASUserX** account, click **Virtual Machines**.

5.  In the **Virtual machines** blade, click **ADVM**.

6.  In the **ADVM** blade, click **Connect**.

7.  When prompted with **“Do you open or save ADVM.rdp (90 bytes) from
    portal.azurestack.external?”** click **Open**.

8.  In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog, click **Connect**.

9.  In the **Windows Security** dialog, click **More choices.**

10. Click **Use a different account**.

11. In the **Username** box, type **.\\DemoAdmin**.

12. In the **Password** box, enter **Password12345**.

13. Click **OK**.

14. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window that opens, click **Yes**.

15. On **ADVM**, right-click **Start**, then click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.

16. In the **Command Prompt (Admin)** window that opens, navigate to
    **C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\\Agent** and then type the
    following commands and then press enter after each:

hslockdown "ContosoAS" /R "NT AUTHORITY\\SYSTEM"

net stop healthservice

net start healthservice

1.  Close the **Command Prompt (Admin)** window, and then sign out of **ADVM**.

####   Task 2: Importing the Operations Manager Management Packs

1.  On **SCOM01**, in the **Operations Manager Console**, click the
    **Administration** workspace.

2.  Expand **Management Packs** and then click **Installed Management Packs**.

3.  From the **Tasks** pane click **Import Management Packs**.

4.  In the **Import Management Packs** window that opens, click **Add**, then
    click **Add from disk**.

5.  In the **Online Catalog Connection** window that opens, click **No**.

6.  In the **Import Management Packs** window that opens, navigate to
    **C:\\ManagementPacks** and then multi-select all **Management Packs**
    ensuring the **All Management Packs** file type is selected.

7.  Deselect the **Microsoft.SystemCenter,AzureStack.mpb** file.

8.  Click **Open**.

9.  In the **Import Management Packs** window, click **Install**.

10. Wait until the **Management Packs** have been installed, then click
    **Close** on the **Import Management Packs** window.

####   Task 3: Confirming Operations Manager is monitoring the guest workloads

1.  On **SCOM01**, in the **Operations Manager Console**, click the
    **Monitoring** workspace.

2.  Click the **Windows Computers** view and confirm **ADVM.ad.contoso.com** and
    **SCOM01.ad.contoso.com** are displayed.

3.  Wait until the **Windows Operating System** column displays **Healthy** for
    both **ADVM.ad.contoso.com** and **SCOM01.ad.contoso.com**. This can take up
    to 10 minutes.

4.  Expand **Microsoft Windows Server** and then click **Windows Server State**.

5.  Confirm both **ADVM** and **SCOM01** are displayed.

6.  Expand **Microsoft SQL Server** and then click **Computers**.

7.  Confirm **SCOM01** is displayed

8.  Expand **SQL Server Database Engines\\SQL Server 2016\\Database Engines**
    and then click the **Database Engines** view.

9.  Confirm **SCOM01** is displayed.

10. Leave the **Operations Manager Console** open.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used Operations Manager to
deploy an agent to the Tailspin Toys virtual machines. You should have then
imported the Windows Server, SQL Server, and IIS Management Packs into
Operations Manager. Finally, you should have confirmed that Operations Manager
is monitoring the Tailspin Toys guest workloads.

### Exercise 3: Troubleshooting Azure Stack by using the Audit Logs and Alerts

####   Task 1: Reviewing Azure Stack Alerts in Operations Manager

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

>   **Note:** Steps 1 -5 should be performed by the instructor only and viewed
>   by the students.

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, click **Start**, then type **Hyper-V**, then click
    **Hyper-V Manager**.

2.  In **Hyper-V Manager**, right-click **AzS-CA01** and then click
    **Shutdown**.

3.  In the **Shut Down Machine** window that opens, click **Shut Down**.

4.  In the **Force Shutdown** window that opens, click **Force**.

5.  Wait until the virtual machine has shut down.

6.  On **SCOM01** in the **Operations Manager Console** click the **Monitoring**
    workspace and then expand **Microsoft Azure Stack** and then click **Active
    Alerts**.

7.  Wait until the **Infrastructure role instance unavailable** alert appears in
    the **Active Alerts** view. This can take up to 10 minutes.

8.  Click the **Infrastructure role instance unavailable** alert.

9.  In the **Alert Details** section, review the **Alert Description** to
    confirm that the **AzS-CA01** virtual machine is no longer available.

####   Task 2: Reviewing Azure Stack Alerts

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** Portal, click **More
    Services** and then under **Administration**, click **Region Management**.

2.  In the **local** blade that opens notice in the **Alerts** section there is
    a **Warning** alert.

3.  Click **Warning**.

4.  In the **Alerts** blade that opens click the **Infrastructure role instance
    unavailable** alert.

5.  In the **Alert Details** blade that opens review the following properties:

-   Name

-   Severity

-   State

-   Component

-   Description

-   Remediation

1.  Close the **Infrastructure role instance unavailable** blade.

2.  Close the **Alerts** blade.

3.  In **Hyper-V Manager** on **MAS-HOST01**, right-click **AzS-CA01** and then
    click **Start**. This step should only be performed by the instructor with
    the students viewing.

4.  Wait for 5 minutes.

5.  Press **F5** in the **Azure Stack** Portal on **AzS-RDP01** to refresh the
    page.

6.  Notice the **Warning** alert has now disappeared as the problem no longer
    exists.

7.  Click the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** title to return to the
    home page.

8.  Leave **Internet Explorer** open.

####   Task 3: Reviewing Azure Stack Audit Logs

1.  In the **Azure Stack– Administration** portal on **AZS-RDP01**, click
    **Resource Groups**.

2.  In the **Resource Groups** blade that opens, click **Add**.

3.  In the **Resource group** blade, type **TestX** in the Resource group name
    box and then click **Create**.

4.  Close the **Resource groups** blade.

5.  Click **More Services** and then scroll down and click **Audit Logs**.

6.  Click **Filter** and then in the **Filter** blade that opens, click the
    drop-down list next to **Time Span** and then click **past 1 hour**, then
    click **Done**.

7.  Click the log entry that displays an **Operation** of **Update resource
    group**.

8.  In the **Update resource group** blade that opens, click the **Update
    resource group** log entry that displays a **Status** of **Succeeded**.

9.  In the **Detail** blade that opens, review the information provided
    including:

-   Caller

-   Resource Group

-   Category

-   Level

1.  Close the **Detail** blade.

2.  Close the **Update resource** group blade.

3.  Close the **Audit Logs** blade.

4.  Click **Resource Groups** and then in the **Resource group blade** that
    opens click the **TestX** Resource Group.

5.  In the **TestX** blade that opens, click **Delete resource group**.

6.  In the **Are you sure you want to delete TestX?** blade that opens, type
    **TestX** in the **Type the Resource Group Name** box and then click
    **Delete**.

7.  Wait until the **TestX** Resource Group has been deleted.

8.  Close the **Resource groups** blade.

9.  Click **More Services** and then scroll down and click **Audit Logs**.

10. Click the log entry that displays an **Operation** of **Delete resource
    group**. You may need to refresh the page until it appears.

11. In the **Delete resource group** blade that opens, click the **Delete
    resource group** log entry that displays a **Status** of **Succeeded**.

12. In the **Detail** blade that opens, review the information provided
    including:

-   Caller

-   Resource Group

-   Category

-   Level

1.  Close the **Detail** blade.

2.  Close the Delete resource group blade.

3.  Close the **Audit Logs** blade.

4.  Close the **Azure Stack** Portal.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used the **Active Alerts**
section in **Region Management** to review the alert information that is
provided when an Azure Stack infrastructure component is offline. You should
have also used the Audit Logs in the Azure Stack Portal to review log entries
that are created when a resource group is create or deleted.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
