Module 9: Licensing Microsoft Azure Stack and Billing Tenants

Lab: Obtaining Usage Information

### Exercise 1: Obtaining Azure Stack usage

####   Task 1: Extract Tenant Usage from Azure Stack using PowerShell

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

>   **Note:** Ensure the Azure Stack VPN is connected on AzS-RDP01 before
>   starting this task. Also from MAS-HOST01 obtain the IP address of the
>   privileged endpoint AzS-ERCS01 virtual machine.

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, click **Start**.

2.  Navigate to **Windows PowerShell**.

3.  Right-click **Windows PowerShell**.

4.  Navigate to **More \| Run as administrator**.

5.  In the **User Account Control** dialog, click **Yes**.

6.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** enter the following PowerShell
    command and press Enter to import the required PowerShell Module:

Import-Module
C:\\Media\\AzureStack-Tools-master\\Connect\\AzureStack.Connect.psm1

7.  Enter the following PowerShell commands to obtain the GUID for the Active
    Directory registration. Press Enter at the end of each PowerShell command:

\$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force

Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStack -ArmEndpoint
https://management.local.azurestack.external

\$TenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStack

8.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to create a
    PowerShell credential object to login to Azure Stack with:

\$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential
("AzureStack\\ASUserX", \$Password)

9.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to login to Azure
    Stack:

Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName "AzureStack" -TenantId \$TenantID
-Credential \$Cred

10.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter after each command:

Set-Location C:\\Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module09

.\\Get-TenantUsage.ps1

11.  Provide a start date of 5 days ago and an end date of yesterday.

12.  Review the **Hourly** usage information that is returned. Note that to
    determine the resource used you must reference the **MeterID** returned with
    the table provided in the **Tenant Based Usage** topic in this module.

13.  Close the **Windows PowerShell** window.

####   Task 2: Create a Service Principal to authenticate with Azure Stack to retrieve Provider usage using the REST API

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, click **Start**.

2.  Right-click **Windows PowerShell**.

3.  Click **Run as administrator**.

4.  In the **User Account Control** dialog, click **Yes**.

5.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** enter the following PowerShell
    command and press Enter to import the required PowerShell Module:

Import-Module AzureRM.Profile

6.  Enter the following command to add the IP address of the privileged endpoint
    (AzS-ERCS01) to the trusted hosts on **AZS-RDP01**. You may need to change
    the IP address based on your environment:

winrm set winrm/config/client ‘\@{TrustedHosts="192.168.200.225"}’

7.  Enter the following command to store the **CloudAdminX** credentials:

\$creds = Get-Credential

8.  In the **Windows PowerShell credential** request window that opens, type
    **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX** in the User name box.

9.  Type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Password** box and then click **OK**.

10.  Type the following commands pressing enter after each. You may need to
    change the IP address based on your environment. Also change the **X** in
    **CloudAdminX** to your student number.

\$session = New-PSSession -ComputerName 192.168.200.225 -ConfigurationName
PrivilegedEndpoint -Credential \$creds

\$cert = New-SelfSignedCertificate -CertStoreLocation "cert:\\CurrentUser\\My"
-Subject "CloudAdminX" -KeySpec KeyExchange

Invoke-Command -Session \$session -ScriptBlock { New-GraphApplication -Name
'CloudAdminX' -ClientCertificates \$using:cert}

\$session\|remove-pssession

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

>   **Note:** When running the **\$session = New-PSSession** command above you
>   may receive an error stating **New-PSSession : Running startup script threw
>   an error**. This is due to the same command being run at the same time as
>   other students. To fix this, ensure only 1 student runs the command before
>   another student runs it.** **

11.  Make a note of the **ClientID** that is returned.

12.  From the desktop, open the **Operator Portal** and sign in using your
    **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX** credentials.

13.  In the **Azure Stack** operator portal that opens, click **More Services**
    and then click **Subscriptions**.

14.  In the Subscriptions page that opens click Default Provider Subscription.

15.  In the **Default Provider Subscription** page that opens, make a note of the
    **Subscription ID** that is provided on the **Overview** page and then click
    **Access Control (IAM).**

16.  In the **Default Provider Subscription – Access Control (IAM)** page that
    opens, click **Add**.

17.  In the **Add permissions** page that opens, click the drop-down list next to
    **Role** and then click **Owner**.

18.  In the **Select** box, type **AzureStack-CloudAdminX**.

19.  Select the **AzureStack-CloudAdminX** account and then click **Save**.

20. Wait until the **Added user** notification appears, then click **More
    Services** and then click **User subscriptions**.

21. In the **User subscriptions** page that opens, click **ASUserXSubscription**
    where **X** is your student number.

22. In the **user subscription** page that opens, make a note of the **User
    Subscription ID** that is shown on the **Overview** page.

23. Close the **Azure Stack** operator portal.

24. Leave the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window open.

####   Task 3: Obtain an Access Token from Azure Stack to retrieve Provider usage using the REST API

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, in the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window that
    was left open from the previous task, enter the following commands pressing
    enter after each command:

\$TestResource = Invoke-RestMethod
https://adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external/metadata/endpoints?api-version=1.0

\$Resource = \$TestResource.authentication.audiences

\$AuthorityEndpoint = "https://adfs.local.azurestack.external/adfs"

\$ServicePrincipalThumbprint = \$Cert.Thumbprint

2.  Type the following command replacing the **GUID** with the **GUID** returned
    in the **ClientID** noted in **Step 11** from the previous task:

\$ClientId = "42ade138-026b-4fbc-903a-33d792dd9547"

3.  Type the following commands, pressing enter after each command:

\$authContext = New-Object
Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.AuthenticationContext(\$AuthorityEndpoint,
\$false)

\$store = New-Object
System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509Store([System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.StoreName]::My,[System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.StoreLocation]::CurrentUser)

\$store.Open([System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.OpenFlags]::ReadOnly)

\$certCollection = \$store.Certificates.Find(
[System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509FindType]::FindByThumbprint,
\$ServicePrincipalThumbprint, \$false)

\$store.Close()

\$cacert=New-Object
Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.ClientAssertionCertificate(\$ClientId,
\$certCollection[0])

\$Token = (\$authContext.AcquireToken(\$Resource, \$cacert)).AccessToken

4.  Leave the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window open.

####   Task 4: Formulate the Request URI and retrieve Provider Usage using the REST API

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, in the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window that
    was left open from the previous task, enter the following command replacing
    the first **GUID** with the **Default Provider Subscription Subscription
    ID** from **Step 15** in **Task 3** and the second **GUID** with the
    **ASUserXSubscription User Subscription ID** obtained in **Step 22** of
    **Task 3**. Also modify the **resportedStartTime** so that the date is the
    start date of this course and the **reportedEndTime** date is yesterday’s
    date.

\$SubscriptionURI =
'https://adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external/subscriptions/2c2c1dad-3f44-4337-b516-0ec212943c66/providers/Microsoft.Commerce/subscriberUsageAggregates?reportedStartTime=2018-01-01&reportedEndTime=2018-02-20&aggregationGranularity=Daily&subscriberId=99d181b0-4ff9-4268-b30b-ba5968aed045&api-version=2015-06-01-preview'

2.  Enter the following commands pressing enter after each command:

\$Headers = \@{'authorization'="Bearer \$(\$Token)"}

\$Request = Invoke-RestMethod -Method GET -ContentType 'application/json'
-Headers \$Headers -Uri \$SubscriptionURI

\$Request.value.properties \| Format-List

3.  Review the usage information returned. This information is taken from the
    **ASUserXSubscription** which is part of the **Default Provider
    Subscription**. You can correlate the **meterID** values with the **Meters**
    shown in the **Tenant-Based Usage** topic to determine the actual resources
    used.

4.  Type the following command and then press enter:

\$Request.value.properties \| Measure

5.  Note the **Count** value returned. This is the number of resource usage
    records recorded.

6.  Use the up-arrow to return to the command entered in Step 1, then remove the
    2nd GUID from the command such as
    **&subscriberId=99d181b0-4ff9-4268-b30b-ba5968aed045**

7.  Enter the command and then enter the following commands again:

\$Request = Invoke-RestMethod -Method GET -ContentType 'application/json'
-Headers \$Headers -Uri \$SubscriptionURI

\$Request.value.properties \| Format-List

8.  Review the usage information returned. This information now shows all
    subscriptions under the **Default Provider Subscription**.

9.  Run the following command again:

\$Request.value.properties \| Measure

10.  Note the **Count** value returned is much higher as usage for all
    subscriptions is returned.

11.  Leave the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window open.

####   Task 5: Update Azure Stack permissions to retrieve Tenant usage using the REST API

1.  From the desktop, open the **User Portal** and sign in using your
    **AzureStack\\ASUserX** credentials.

2.  In the **Azure Stack** user portal that opens, click **More Services** and
    then click **Subscriptions**.

3.  In the **Subscriptions** page that opens click **App-Service-WebsitesX.**

4.  In the **App-Service-WebsitesX** page that opens, make a note of the
    **Subscription ID** that is provided on the **Overview** page and then click
    **Access Control (IAM).**

5.  In the **App-Service-WebsitesX – Access Control (IAM)** page that opens,
    click **Add**.

6.  In the **Add permissions** page that opens, click the drop-down list next to
    **Role** and then click **Owner**.

7.  In the **Select** box, type **AzureStack-CloudAdminX**.

8.  Select the **AzureStack-CloudAdminX** account and then click **Save**.

9.  Wait until the **Added user notification** appears, then close the **Azure
    Stack** user portal.

####   Task 6: Obtain an Access Token from Azure Stack to retrieve Tenant usage using the REST API

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, in the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window that
    was left open from the previous task, enter the following commands pressing
    enter after each command:

\$TestResource = Invoke-RestMethod
https://management.local.azurestack.external/metadata/endpoints?api-version=1.0

\$Resource = \$TestResource.authentication.audiences

\$AuthorityEndpoint = "https://adfs.local.azurestack.external/adfs"

\$ServicePrincipalThumbprint = \$Cert.Thumbprint

2.  Type the following commands, pressing enter after each command:

\$authContext = New-Object
Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.AuthenticationContext(\$AuthorityEndpoint,
\$false)

\$store = New-Object
System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509Store([System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.StoreName]::My,[System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.StoreLocation]::CurrentUser)

\$store.Open([System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.OpenFlags]::ReadOnly)

\$certCollection = \$store.Certificates.Find(
[System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509FindType]::FindByThumbprint,
\$ServicePrincipalThumbprint, \$false)

\$store.Close()

\$cacert=New-Object
Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.ClientAssertionCertificate(\$ClientId,
\$certCollection[0])

\$Token = (\$authContext.AcquireToken(\$Resource, \$cacert)).AccessToken

3.  Leave the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window open.

####   Task 7: Formulate the Request URI and retrieve Tenant Usage using the REST API

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, in the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window that
    was left open from the previous task, enter the following command replacing
    the **GUID** with the **App-Service-WebsitesX Subscription ID** from **Step
    4** in **Task 6**. Also modify the **resportedStartTime** so that the date
    is the start date of this course and the **reportedEndTime** date is
    yesterday’s date.

\$SubscriptionURI =
'https://management.local.azurestack.external/subscriptions/07a828d0-e911-4005-a0ab-513bdbb8072c/providers/Microsoft.Commerce/UsageAggregates?reportedStartTime=2018-01-01&reportedEndTime=2018-02-20&aggregationGranularity=Daily&api-version=2015-06-01-preview'

2.  Enter the following commands pressing enter after each command:

\$Headers = \@{'authorization'="Bearer \$(\$Token)"}

\$Request = Invoke-RestMethod -Method GET -ContentType 'application/json'
-Headers \$Headers -Uri \$SubscriptionURI

\$Request.value.properties \| Format-List

3.  Review the usage information returned. This information is taken from the
    **App-Service-WebsitesX** subscription You can correlate the **meterID**
    values with the **Meters** shown in the **Tenant-Based Usage** topic to
    determine the actual resources used.

4.  Type the following command and then press enter:

\$Request.value.properties \| Measure

5.  Note the **Count** value returned. This is the number of resource usage
    records recorded.

6.  Close the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window.

####   Task 8: Review Azure Stack resource consumption using the Azure Stack operator portal

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

    -   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration**, page that opens, click
    **More Services.**

5.  Under the **Administration** section, click **Region Management**.

6.  In the **local** blade that opens, review the following information:

    -   Alerts

    -   Update

    -   Resource Providers

    -   Infrastructure Roles

7.  From the navigation pane, under **Resource Providers**, click **Capacity**.

8.  In the **local – Capacity** blade that opens, review the following
    information:

    -   Alerts

    -   Scale Units

    -   Physical storage

    -   Physical memory

    -   Public IP pools usage

9.  From the navigation pane, click **Scale Units**.

10.  In the **local – Scale units** blade that opens, click **S-Cluster**.

11.  In the **S-Cluste**r blade that opens, review the following information:

    -   Region

    -   Total logical cores

    -   Type

    -   Total memory

12.  Close the **S-Cluster** blade.

13.  From the navigation pane, under **Tenant Resources,** click **Virtual
    networks.**

14.  Review the information provided in the **local – Virtual networks** blade
    that opens.

15.  Close the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration** portal.

16.  Close all open windows.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will be able to: Obtain Tenant
usage information in Azure Stack using PowerShell. Obtain Tenant and Provider
usage information in Azure Stack using the REST API’s. Obtain Azure Stack
resource consumption by using the Administration portal.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
