Module 7: Platform as a Service and Microsoft Azure Stack

Lab: Configuring Platform as a Service in Azure Stack

### Exercise 1: Adding hosting servers

####   Task 1: Add a hosting server to the SQL resource provider

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

>   **Note:** This Exercise can only be performed once. It is advised that the
>   instructor performs this exercise while the students review.

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  In the Microsoft **Azure Stack - Administration,** page that opens, click
    **More Services.**

2.  Click **SQL Hosting Servers**.

3.  In the **SQL Hosting Servers** blade that opens, click **Add**.

4.  In the **Add a SQL Hosting Server** blade that opens configure the
    following. All other settings should remain as default:

-   SQL Server Name: **CONTOSOSQL.azurestack.local**

-   Username: **sa**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

-   Size of Hosting Server in GB:**50**

-   Resource group: Use existing **SQLRPRG**

-   SKU: Create a new SKU with the following settings and then click **OK**:

-   Name: **DefaultSQLSKU**

-   Family: **SQL Server 2014**

-   Tier: **Standalone**

-   Edition: **Evaluation**

1.  Click **Create**.

2.  Wait for the operation to complete and then confirm
    **CONTOSOSQL.azurestack.local** has been added to the **SQL Hosting
    Servers** blade.

3.  Click the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** title to return to the
    home page.

4.  Leave **Internet Explorer** open.

####   Task 2: Add a hosting server to the MySQL resource provider

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration**, page on **AZS-RDP01**,
    click **More Services**.

2.  Click **MySQL Hosting Servers**.

3.  In the **MySQL Hosting Servers** blade that opens, click **Add**.

4.  In the **Add a MySQL Hosting Server** blade that opens configure the
    following settings. All other settings should remain as default:

-   MySQL Hosting Server Name: **CONTOSOMySQL.azurestack.local**

-   Username: **localadmin**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

-   Size of Hosting Server in GB:**30**

-   Resource group: Use existing **MySQLRG**

-   SKU: Create a new SKU with the following settings and then click **OK**:

-   Name: **DefaultMySQLSKU**

-   Family: **MySQL**

-   Tier: **Standalone**

1.  Click **Create**.

2.  Wait for the operation to complete and then confirm
    **CONTOSOMySQL.azurestack.local** has been added to the **MySQL Hosting
    Servers** blade.

3.  Click the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** title to return to the
    home page.

4.  Leave **Internet Explorer** open.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have added a hosting server to both
the SQL and MySQL resource providers.

### Exercise 2: Configuring a Plan and Offer

####   Task 1: Create a Plan for SQL Server databases

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration**, page on **AZS-RDP01**,
    click **Plans**

2.  In the **Plans** blade that opens, click **Add**.

3.  In the **New plan** blade that opens, configure the **Plan** with the
    following settings, all other settings should remain as default:

-   Display name: **SQL-databasesX**

-   Resource group: Use existing **SQLRG**

-   Services: **Microsoft.SQLAdapater**

-   Quotas: Create a new **Quota** with the following settings, all other
    settings should remain as default:

-   Quota name: **DefaultQuotaX**

1.  Click **Create** to create the plan.

2.  In the **Plans** blade, click **Refresh** and confirm the **SQL-databasesX**
    Plan is displayed.

3.  Click the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** title to return to the
    home page.

4.  Leave **Internet Explorer** open.

####   Task 2: Create an Offer for SQL Server databases

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration**, page on **AZS-RDP01**,
    click **Offers**

2.  In the **Offers** blade that opens, click **Add**.

3.  In the **New Offer** blade that opens, configure the following settings, all
    other settings should remain as default:

-   Display name: **SQL-databasesX**

-   Resource group: Use existing **SQLRG**

-   Base plan: **SQL-databasesX**

1.  Click **Create** to create the **Offer**.

2.  In the **Offer** blade, click **Refresh** and confirm the **SQL-databasesX**
    Offer is displayed.

3.  Click the **SQL-databasesX** Offer.

4.  In the **SQL-databases** blade that opens, click **Change State**, then
    click **Public**.

5.  Close **Internet Explorer**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a Plan and an Offer
for SQL databases. You should have also made the Offer public, in order for
tenants to subscribe to it.

### Exercise 3: Create SQL Server databases

####   Task 1: Subscribe to the SQL-databases Offer

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\ASUserX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack**, page that opens, click **More Services**
    and then click **Subscriptions**.

2.  Click **Add**.

3.  In the **Get a subscription** blade that opens, type **SQL-databasesX** in
    the **Display name** box and then click **Select an offer**.

4.  In the **Choose an offer** blade that opens, click **SQL-databasesX**.

5.  Click **Create** and then click **Refresh**.

6.  Click **More Services** and then click **Subscriptions**.

7.  Confirm the **SQL-databasesX** subscription is listed in the
    **SubscriptionsX** blade that opens.

8.  Click the **Microsoft Azure Stack** title to return to the home page.

9.  Leave **Internet Explorer** open.

####   Task 2: Provision a new database

1.  In the **Azure Stack Portal** on **AZS-RDP01** that is logged in using the
    **ASUserX** account, click **New**.

2.  Click **Data + Storage** and then click **SQL Database**.

3.  In the **Create Database** blade that opens, configure the following
    settings, all other settings should remain as default:

-   Database name: **Contoso-TenantX**

-   Max size in MB: **64**

-   Subscription: **SQL-databasesX**

-   Resource Group: Create new: **SQL-databasesX**

-   SKU: **DefaultSQLSKU**

-   Login: Create a new **Login** with the following settings:

-   Database login: **ASUserX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

-   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  Click **Create** to provision the new database.

2.  Wait until the database has been provisioned and then click **More
    Services**, then click **SQL Databases**.

3.  In the **SQL Databases** blade that opens, confirm the **Contoso-TenantX**
    database is listed.

4.  close Internet Explorer.

####   Task 3: Confirm the database was created on the SQL Hosting Server

![](media/e00b1dc6a9a7da4cfda0bff1ec0c3de8.png)

>   **Note:** If the lab environment you are working in is using a single Azure
>   Stack instance then this task should only be performed by the instructor and
>   viewed by the students.

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration**, page that opens, click
    **Virtual Machines**.

2.  Click **CONTOSOSQL** and then in the **CONTOSOSQL** blade that opens, click
    **Connect**.

3.  In the **Do you want to open or save ContosoSQL.rdp (90 bytes) from
    adminportal.local.azurestack.external?** popup notification, click **Open**.

4.  In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window that opens, click **Connect**.

5.  In the **Windows Security** window that opens, click **More choices**, then
    click **Use a different account**.

6.  In the **User name** box type **localadmin**, in the Password box type
    **Pa55w.rd** and then click **OK**.

7.  In the **Remote Desktop Connection** popup window that opens, click **Yes**.

8.  After login has completed, click **Start**, then click **Microsoft SQL
    Server 2014**.

9.  Click **SQL Server 2014 Management Studio**.

10. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box that opens, click the
    **Authentication** drop-down list and then click **Windows Authentication**.

11. Click **Connect**.

12. In the **Object Explorer** pane, expand **Databases**.

13. Confirm the **Contoso-TenantX** databases provisioned in the previous task
    are displayed.

14. Close **SQL Server 2014 Management Studio** and sign out of **CONTOSOSQL**.

15. Close Internet Explorer.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have used the tenant portal to
subscribe to the SQL-databases offer and created a new database. This confirms
that the SQL Server resource provider is functioning as expected. You should
have also confirmed that the SQL database was provisioned on the hosting server.

### Exercise 4: Configure a Plan and Offer for App Service

####   Task 1: Create an App Service Plan

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration,** page that opens, click
    **Plans**.

2.  In the **Plans** blade that opens, click **Add**.

3.  In the **New Plan** blade that opens, configure the following settings, all
    other settings should remain as default:

-   Display name: **App-Service-WebsitesX**

-   Resource group: Create a new Resource Group named **AppServiceX**

-   Services: **Microsoft.Web**

-   Quotas: **Default**

1.  Click **Create**.

2.  Confirm the **App-Service-WebsitesX** Plan is displayed in the **Plans**
    blade. You may need to click the **Refresh** button.

3.  Click the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** title to return to the
    home page.

4.  Leave **Internet Explorer** open.

####   Task 2: Create an App Service Offer

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, In the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** portal
    that is opened using the **CloudAdminX** account, click **Offers**.

2.  In the **Offers** blade that opens, click **Add**.

3.  In the **New Offer** blade that opens configure the following settings, all
    other settings should remain as default:

-   Display name: **App-Service-WebsitesX**

-   Resource group: Use existing **AppServiceX** Resource Group.

-   Base plan: **App-Service-WebsitesX**

1.  Click **Create** to create the **Offer** and then click **Refresh**
    intermittently until the **app-service-websitesX** Offer is displayed in the
    **Offers** blade.

2.  Click **app-service-websitesX.**

3.  In the **app-service-websitesX** blade that opens, click **Change state**
    and then click **Public**.

4.  Click the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** title to return to the
    home page.

5.  Close **Internet Explorer**.

####   Task 3: Subscribe to the App Service Offer

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into the **Azure Stack** user portal with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\ASUserX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure** page that opens, click **More Services** and then
    click **Subscriptions**.

2.  In the **Subscriptions** blade that opens, click **Add**.

3.  In the **Get a subscription** blade that opens, type **WebsitesX** in the
    **Display name** box and then click **Offer**.

4.  In the **Choose an offer** blade that opens, click
    **App-Service-WebsitesX.**

5.  Click **Create** and then click **Refresh**.

6.  Click **More Services** and then click **Subscriptions**.

7.  Confirm the **WebSitesX** Subscription is listed and then click the
    **Microsoft Azure Stack** title to return to the home page. Notice the **App
    Services** navigation tab has appeared on the home page.

8.  Leave **Internet Explorer** open.

####   Task 4: Create a new App Service website

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, in the **Azure Stack** user portal that is signed in using
    the **ASUserX** account, click **New**.

2.  In the **New** blade that opens, click **Web + Mobile.**

3.  Click **Web App**.

4.  In the **Web App** blade that opens configure the following settings, all
    other settings should remain as default:

-   App name: **Fabrikam-IntranetX**

-   Subscription: **WebSitesX**

-   Resource group: Create a new **Resource Group** named **Fabrikam-IntranetX**

-   App Service plan/location: Create a new **App Service Plan** with the
    following settings:

    -   App Service plan: **Default-plan**

    -   Location: **local**

    -   Pricing tier: **F1 Free**

1.  Click **OK** on the **New App Service Plan** blade.

2.  Click **Create** on the **Web App** blade.

3.  The page automatically returns to the home page.

4.  Refresh the page intermittently until the **Fabrikam-IntranetX** icon
    appears in the **All resources** section of the **Azure Stack** dashboard.
    You may need to click **See more** to display all resources.

5.  Open a new **Internet Explorer** tab and then browse **to
    http://fabrikam-intranetX.appservice.local.azurestack.external**

6.  Confirm the page displays the message stating **This web app has been
    successfully created**.

7.  Close the **Internet Explorer** page that displays the **message This web
    app has been successfully created.**

8.  Sign-out and close **Internet Explorer**.

####   Task 5: Configure application access

1.  **On AZS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into the **Azure Stack** user portal with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\ASUserX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure** page that opens, click **App Services**

2.  Click **Fabrikam-IntranetX**.

3.  In the **Fabrikam-Intranet** blade that opens, click **Deployment
    credentials**.

4.  Configure the credentials as follows:

-   FTP/deployment username: **FabrikamAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

-   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  Click **Save**.

2.  Click the **Microsoft Azure Stack** title to return to the home page and
    then close **Internet Explorer.**

####   Task 6: Change the home page of the Fabrikam Intranet website

1.  On **AZS-RDP01**, open **File Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **ftp://ftp.appservice.local.azurestack.external/**

3.  In the **Log On As** dialog box that opens enter the following credentials:

-   User name: **Fabrikam-IntranetX\\FabrikamAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  Click **Log On**.

2.  Expand **site\\wwwroot** and note the **hostingstart.html** file that is
    present. This is the current home page of the **Fabrikam Intranet** website.

3.  On **AZS-RDP01** navigate to **C:\\Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module07** and copy
    the **hostingstart.html** file.

4.  Paste the **hostingstart.html** file into the **wwwroot** folder replacing
    the existing file.

5.  Close **File Explorer**.

6.  Open **Internet Explorer** and browse to
    **http://fabrikam-intranetX.appservice.local.azurestack.external**

7.  Notice the home page has changed to the **Fabrikam Intranet**. You may need
    to refresh the **Internet Explorer** page to see the changes.

8.  Close Internet Explorer.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created an Plan and Offer that
includes the services offered in App Service. You should have then subscribed to
the offer as a tenant and provisioned a web site. Finally, you should have
configured access to the FTP site associated with the website and then changed
the default home page.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
